For anyone who owns a website,
the number of people that come to visit that website is important.
In Google Analytics, the people that access your site are called users.
They're visitors that had at least one session on
your website during the time period selected.
When you build a website,
you typically want as many users as possible.
So, as a result,
the number of users is a good starting point to evaluate your site and its success.
You will want to know how many users come and whether
your user number is increasing or decreasing.
We're back in the default audience overview.
It looks like the Google Merchandise Store had over
61,000 users for the month I'm looking at.
This is my audience.
The people that found my site.
Now, when you think of the customer journey,
this group of people is beyond the awareness point.
They know about me but they've also shown me
that they're interested in coming to visit the site.
The number of users I see here is for the time period I have selected.
But it's a good idea to evaluate user trends as well.
You want to understand whether your user numbers are increasing,
or decreasing, or staying pretty much the same.
Google adds a nice trend line here,
but the trend line is for sessions not users.
There is a difference.
A user can come back several times in a given time period,
which could count as several sessions by one user.
I'm interested now in just getting a sense of the number of people that came to my site.
So, let's select this graph under the user number.
Now, let's look at the trend for the last year.
That will give me an idea of how well I've been doing.
So, I can change the settings here.
It looks like there was a user increase before the summer.
But I feel like we're back to where we started last year with how the numbers look now.
It's relatively hard to see if you look at the day by day trend.
So, let's switch to a month by month view.
It's the same data but the graph is different,
since the data is aggregated by month.
It looks like the user numbers decreased again.
Let's take a look and see whether Google's left us
some notes on anything that happened that we should be aware of.
When you click on this pull down arrow,
you'll get the annotations that were left in the account.
In this case, Dee at Google put a few notes.
It looks like a new website domain was adopted in July.
It's possible that could have something to do with
the decline we're seeing but hard to tell.
Now, if you want to leave your own note you can
do that by clicking, create new annotation.
Then you select the date and enter your note.
These notes can be very helpful if you want to remind
yourself or others of important things that happened on that day,
like a new campaign launch or a new AdWords campaign.
On this overview page,
we can also immediately get a sense of the percentage of new versus returning visitors.
In this case, it looks like the majority of the visitors are new.
This tells me that users that visit the store are not likely to come back within a year.
It's not super surprising because you probably don't need a ton of Google swag.
Note that Google Analytics uses visitors when referring to new and returning visitors.
So, now we have a sense of how many users the site gets
and we know that the user numbers went down a bit after the summer.
We also know that most of the users are new to the site.
Let's take a look at who the new users are.